The DH project that I wanted to work on this semester deals with the Battle of Thermopylae. One of the most famous events in Geek history, this battle has managed to permeate modern literature as well as shape many opinions and perceptions about Greece. The primary reason I chose this topic for my grant simply has to do with my love of history. More specifically, my love of Greek history. As someone who has been around this topic for a few years, this event in particular has always sparked my interest due to its impactful but often misunderstood repercussions.

When I began this project, I had many different ideas of what I wanted the finished product to look like. At first, I imagined a VR experience, where the user could virtually walk through the landscape of the battle and personally see what it would look like through the eyes of someone who was there. However, after thinking this through, I realized that it would be far too expensive as well as complicated to make. Instead, I opted for a similar, less complex approach. Instead of VR, I wanted to create an interactive map for the user to experience. They would still be able to “walk through” the battle, but the process itself would be significantly simpler and more effective to put together. Through this method, I could also include more information about Thermopylae than I could through other means such as VR. I have continued to revise the specifics of my project over the past weeks, and have reached a place where I feel very confident with what I have.

Through doing this project, I have a completely different understanding of grant writing altogether. Before this class, I always believed a grant existed to simply ask permission to do something. I knew there was some preliminary research involved, but I had no idea of the full reach it entailed. In the process of making my own project, I have come to realize that a grant is a way to fully understand your project. It is much more than just asking for funding. Instead, it requires substantial research as well as a complete understanding of what you have in mind to accomplish. Writing a grant helps you see what works and maybe what will not to allow the writer to perfect to the best of their ability what they want to achieve. Through the process of grant writing, the author of any particular project can see the full extent of not only what their finished product will look like, but rather its larger impact on the field in which it belongs. I have come to see that grant writing is not only important but necessary.

The same logic applies to my understanding of Digital Humanities. Before taking this class, I truly had no idea what Digital Humanities was. I assumed it had to do with things such as blog writing, but I was completely unknowledgeable about the specifics. As a history student especially, I have come to see how vital DH is in the present and especially in the future. As different aspects of scholarship move more and more online, DH will continue to grow and take extreme importance in the online world. This is not a bad thing. If there is one takeaway from this course, it is that there are virtually limitless opportunities to create what you want online. If you have an idea, there is almost always a way to create and apply it to the online community. Over the past couple of weeks in the class, I have seen as well as reviewed some projects that I would never even have thought of working on in a digital space. For example, I reviewed the art piece Jheronimus Bosch, the Garden of Earthly Delights. In this project, each “stage” of the mural was fully interactive while simultaneously telling the story the artist wanted to portray. It is projects such as this that reveal the extent of what Digital Humanities can do. Through DH, it is possible to take any idea that pertains to scholarship and apply them in new and unique ways.

Through the process of grant writing as well as my participation in this course, I believe that I have not only gained a better understanding of writing from a digital perspective but have become a much better writer as a result.

